Semplice for Workstations 2015.2 "Jethro Tull"
==============================================

It's our pleasure to announce the first stable release of Semplice for Workstations 2015,
codenamed "Jethro Tull".

After a month since the release of the preview version, we now feel confident to release
Semplice for Workstations 2015 to everyone.  
An huge thanks goes to everyone who took part in the testing phase and has thus
contributed in making this release possible.

This release is based on Debian 8.2, plus the updates available at the moment of build (2015-09-17).
The iso images ship with Linux kernel 4.1.7.

Known issues
------------

Please keep in mind the following notes about this release:

* It's currently not possible to graphically switch the base update channel
  to Semplice 7 (current)'s one.  
  This is due to some ongoing issues with the upgrade to Debian sid.  
    
  A later opt-in upgrade will restore the functionality by switching to
  the new upgrade framework currently in development.  
  In the meantime, should you wish to switch to the current channel,
  you can do so via the command-line, using the `channels` tool.

Upgrading from Semplice for Workstations 2015.1-preview
-------------------------------------------------------

Open **Settings → Device details** and click on the *Check for updates* button.  

It's also possible to upgrade using the command-line:

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Upgrading from Debian 8.X "Jessie"
----------------------------------

It's possible to install the Semplice packages on top of an existing Debian installation.

### 1. Enable the Semplice repositories

Create /etc/apt/sources.list.d/semplice-jessie.list and put the following line there:

	deb http://archive.semplice-linux.org/semplice/ jessie main contrib non-free #main

Then, update the package list cache:

	sudo apt-get update

Install the archive keyring and the `channels` tool:

	sudo apt-get install semplice-archive-keyring channels channels-vendor-semplice

Enable the rest of the semplice repositories using the `channels` tool:

	sudo channels enable semplice-jessie

Finally, update again the package list cache:

	sudo apt-get update

### 2. Install the Semplice packages

	sudo apt-get install meta-base meta-openbox

### 3. (Optional) Install the Semplice kernel

You may want to install the Semplice desktop-optimized kernel.

#### 32-bit machines

	sudo apt-get install linux-image-desktop-686

#### 64-bit machines

	sudo apt-get install linux-image-desktop-amd64

### 4. Reboot

Congratulations! You have successfully upgraded to Semplice for Workstations 2015.
You should now reboot.

At the next log-in ensure that the **Vera** session is chosen in your login manager.

### 5. (Optional) Install other features

You may want to install other features that are part of the standard ISO image.  
It's possible to do so in Settings → Features.

What's new?
-----------

Semplice for Workstations 2015 has feature parity with Semplice 7.0.2.

See what's new in Semplice 7 [here](https://github.com/semplice/releasenotes/blob/master/numb/7.md#whats-new) and
in Semplice 7.0.2 [here](https://github.com/semplice/releasenotes/blob/master/numb/7.0.2.md#whats-new).
